# 1.4: Variables
Variables are how we store information  
Add a line before the print line like this example:  
Then replace the inside of println() with just the word text (no quotations)  
Run the program, observe the output.  
Here is the structure of this new line:  
The word ‘text’ is the name  
Note: the semicolon indicates the end of that line. You need one after every statement in java. (its like a period in English).  
Practice: change the variable name to ‘words’ with the program still working  
## 1.4.1: Types
‘String’ is the type of variable. String means the content of the variable is text.  
Here are some other variable types:  
int: a whole number  
double: a number than can have decimals  
boolean: a true or false  
char: a single character  
Here is the logic with a boolean instead of a String:  
Practice: make it print your favorite number using a variable  
## 1.4.2: Operations
Operations are like math. They are one way we can process information.  
Here is an example:  
Here are other operations:  
‘-’ : subtraction  
‘*’: multiplication  
‘/’: division  
‘%’ : modulo  
Practice: make your code multiply two double variables x (5.5) and y (9.1) and print the result  
When dividing two integers, the result will always be the natural quotient with it’s decimals cut off  
This is called truncation (because the output also has to be an integer, which can’t have decimals).  
Try running this:  
Now change the types to doubles and observe the result  
Strings can also be added. Change your variables to be Strings and add them together in the println().  
You can also add booleans, ints, and doubles to strings and they string will be appended with the content of the other var  
Another type of operation is comparison
Change x and y to be integers, then change the inside of the println to be x==y  
Now make x and y the same number  
There are other comparisons:  
>=  
<=  
>  
<  
!=  
These comparisons turn 2 of any variable into a boolean  
Practice:   
make a new variable called ‘output’  
‘output’ should store whether x >= y  
Print output  
Booleans have their own set of operations  
|| : if either boolean is true, output is true, otherwise false  
&& : if either boolean is false, output is false, otherwise true  
!: negates the following boolean  
Ex: Try recreating this and running it:  
Practice: Now make the program print whether int x is greater than 0 and less than 10  
Ex: Try recreating this and running it:  
Practice: make a program that prints x times x, then prints the opposite boolean of whether x times x is less than 20  
Syntactic sugar (makes life easier)  
x+=y  
x-=y  
x*=y  
x/=y  
These are the same as   
x=x+y  
x=x-y  
x=x*y  
x=x/y  
Example:  
Output is 3.  
Practice: change x and y to Strings (any Strings). Observe results.  
You can also add 1 and subtract 1 (increment, and decrement)  
x++  
x--  
Ex:  
Practice: make it subtract 1 instead of add 1 to x  