# 1.6: Arrays
Write this out:





That’s a lot of code for something fairly simple
There’s a better way





Instead, we do this:



Same result, less writing. In general, this is a good goal in programming.
In this case we used an array.
The little ‘[]’ after int indicate to Java that it is an array of integers, rather than a single integer.






The ‘{‘ and ‘}’ with elements separated by commas indicate the creation of an array
numbers.length returns the number of elements
When trying to access an element of an array, we use numbers[i]
This tells java that we want the element at location i
Important: the location or index of an element in an array starts at 0 and increases. 
For example, 2 is at index 0, 3 is at index 2…






Practice: Modify the array to be an array of Strings
Practice: Only print the element if ‘i’ is 0 or 2. Otherwise print “Skipping…”
Here is another way to create an array:





This creates a String array of length 4. Currently nothing is stored in the array.
We can fix that by accessing elements and assigning Strings:




Practice: try printing these words in reverse order using a for loop

## 1.6.1: enhanced for loop
- Enhanced for loops are more syntactic sugar. You don’t need enhanced for loops but they make life easier.
Ex:



Enhanced for loop is for iterating through arrays
Note: You can’t modify elements of an array with an enhanced for loop
Note: I didn’t have brackets after the for loop because I only had one line of code inside the array
Practice: 
make a double array
Use an enhanced for loop to print out whether each element is greater than 10

Practice: 
make a double array
Use an enhanced for loop to print out whether each element is greater than 10
ArrayLists also make life easier.
You can’t add an element to an array past it’s length




The array is not dynamically sized (remember with size 5, there are elements [0, 1, 2, 3, 4]. There is no index 5.)
ArrayLists allow you to make the array bigger or smaller easily






They also work with enhanced for loops
Note: you need to add the import statement at the top to tell Java you want to use the ArrayList library
This is useful because in the real world we don’t know how many elements there will be.
For example, there could be two game pieces showing on the camera, or there could be five. A statically sized array may not work.
Practice: 
initialize an empty string arraylist
Use a for loop to fill 5 elements with 100 minus the index of that element squared
Use an enhanced for loop to print all values in the list
