# Mecanum
Mecanum is a little tricky, because there isn’t a template project provided by Advantage Kit specifically for mecanum  
However, there are libraries in WPILib for running Mecanum code: https://docs.wpilib.org/en/stable/docs/software/kinematics-and-odometry/mecanum-drive-kinematics.html   
You will need to either use the Vision Template or the Skeleton Template (if your code is not currently in one of these, you can either remove the current drive code in your codebase or move your new code to one of these templates)  
Each mecanum wheel is its own module with its own wheel. In this case, it can be helpful to think of each module as its own subsystem with its own logged values and methods  
Remember a mecanum module is an angular velocity mechanism, but it can also provide linear velocity information based on how fast the circumference of the wheel is moving (radius * omega radians)  
Then, a Drive subsystem can be created with an array of four mecanum subsystem objects inside of it. The Drive subsystem will convert ChassisSpeeds into individual module outputs using WPILib’s MecanumDriveKinematics.  
Using WPILib’s mecanum libraries, your drive subsystem should be able to convert a ChassisSpeeds object into method calls to individual module subsystems  
For further reference on how to code a mecanum drivetrain, check out the swerve templates for advantage kit. Both mecanum and swerve work with individual modules and ChassisSpeeds objects.  
For driving field-centric, you will need a gyro (IMU) subsystem as well.  
You will need a command that takes Suppliers from the xbox sticks and converts them to method calls to the drive subsystem (generally, left stick is movement, right is rotation). Reference the swerve template for an example of this.  
Get your robot moving!  